# Bootstrapping the Cloudify Manager

As you've seen, Cloudify Manager allows system administrators to manage blueprints and deployments effectively. Here we'll get into some detail on how to install it, and some of the choices available when doing so.

## MANAGER BLUEPRINTS

Much like the deployment of the sample application you undertook in the previous lab, it is possible to use the Cloudify CLI to install the Manager itself. And like the sample app, you also need a blueprint to do so. A blueprint that installs Cloudify Manager is called a Manager Blueprint.

A Manager Blueprint specifies a VM and other infrastructure components that will be created specifically for the Manager, and contains instructions for installing Manager services and relationships using the former. It follows the standard YAML blueprint syntax, allowing users to customize topology and configuration as usual.

## AVAILABLE BLUEPRINTS

A Manager Blueprint must be written specifically for a target platform, as it needs to handle cloud-specific tasks such as VM and network configuration. To simplify the bootstrapping process, Cloudify provides pre-made blueprints for the following platforms:

OpenStack
Apache CloudStack
Amazon Web Services (AWS)
VMware vSphere and vCloud
In addition, there is a simple blueprint provided for cases where the infrastructure is created separately by the user. This blueprint will only install Cloudify Manager, as long as network address and credentials are provided.

## HOST REQUIREMENTS

A Cloudify Manager host must, at a minimum, run a 64-bit operating system on a machine with 2 vCPUs, 4GB of RAM, and 40GB of free space on the root file system.

However, such a host would only be suitable for development or demonstrations. Production requirements would vary according to the intended number of deployments, and the amount of concurrent logs, events, and metrics generated by them.

As a general recommendation for the average production system, a Manager would require at least 8GB of RAM and 4 CPU Cores. (Disk space requirements varies according to the amount of logs, events and metrics sent.)

## NETWORK REQUIREMENTS

Only one network is required between a Manager instance and the hosts it manages. However, the Manager must have the following TCP ports accessible:

22: During bootstrap, components are installed and configured via SSH. It is used during recovery of the Manager as well.
80: REST API and UI. This port should be accessible when SSL is not enabled.
443: REST API and UI. This port should be accessible when SSL is enabled.
8081: REST API. This port is used for internal access and as such should only be accessible from Agent VMs.
5672: RabbitMQ. This port should be accessible from agent VMs.
53229: File server. This port should be accessible from agent VMs.
OPERATING SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

Cloudify Manager can be bootstrapped on either CentOS 7.x or RHEL 7.x.

## THE BOOTSTRAP COMMAND

On a system with a suitably initialized Cloudify CLI, launching the bootstrap process is done by invoking the following command:

cfy bootstrap -p MGR_BLUEPRINT [-i INPUTS]
Where MGR_BLUEPRINT is the path to the Manager Blueprint in the local filesystem, and INPUTS is the path to a YAML file containing the pertinent blueprint input values (such as credentials and IP addresses).

This will store the Manager endpoint information in the current directory; if managing a different Manager is desired, you can resort to the cfy use command.